Federalist 61
The same subject continued concerning
the power of Congress to regulate the
election of members from the New York
Packet Tuesday, February 26th, 1788
Hamilton
To the people of the state of New York
The more candid opposers of the
provision respecting elections contained
in the plan of the convention when
pressed in argument will sometimes
concede the propriety of that provision
with this qualification, however, that
it ought to have been accompanied with a
declaration that all elections should be
had in the counties where the electors
resided.
This they say was a necessary precaution
against an abuse of the power.
A declaration of this nature would
certainly have been harmless.
So far as it would have had the effect
of quieting apprehensions, it might not
have been undesirable. But it would in
fact have afforded little or no
additional security against the danger
apprehended and the want of it will
never be considered by an impartial and
judicious examiner as a serious, still
less as an insuperable objection to the
plan.
The different views taken of the subject
in the two preceding papers must be
sufficient to satisfy all dispassionate
and discerning men that if the public
liberty should ever be the victim of the
ambition of the national rulers, the
power under examination at least will be
guiltless of the sacrifice.
If those who are inclined to consult
their jealousy only would exercise it in
a careful inspection of the several
state constitutions, they would find
little less room for disquietude and
alarm from the latitude which most of
them allow in respect to elections than
from the latitude which is proposed to
be allowed to the national government in
the same respect.
A review of their situation in this
particular would tend greatly to remove
any ill impressions which may remain in
regard to this matter.
But as that view would lead into long
and tedious details, I shall content
myself with the single example of the
state in which I write.
The Constitution of New York makes no
other provision for locality of
elections than that the members of the
assembly shall be elected in the
counties, those of the Senate in the
great districts into which the state is
or may be divided. These at present are
four in number and comprehend each from
two to six counties.
It may readily be perceived that it
would not be more difficult to the
legislature of New York to defeat the
suffrages of the citizens of New York by
confining elections to particular places
than the legislature of the United
States to defeat the suffrages of the
citizens of the Union by the like
expedient.
Suppose for instance the city of Albany
was to be appointed the sole place of
election for the county and district of
which it is a part.
Would not the inhabitants of that city
speedily become the only electors of the
members both of the Senate and Assembly
for that county and district? Can we
imagine that the electors who reside in
the remote subdivisions of the counties
of Albany, Saratoga, Cambridge, etc. or
in any part of the county of Montgomery
would take the trouble to come to the
city of Albany to give their votes for
members of the Assembly or Senate sooner
than they would repair to the city of
New York to participate in the choice of
the members of the federal House of
Representatives?
The alarming indifference discoverable
in the exercise of so invaluable a
privilege under the existing laws which
afford every facility to it furnishes a
ready answer to this question and
abstracted from any experience on the
subject, we can be at no loss to
determine that when the place of
election is at an inconvenient distance
from the elector, the effect upon his
conduct will be the same whether that
distance be 20 miles or 20,000 miles.
Hence it must appear that objections to
the particular modification of the
federal power of regulating elections
will in substance apply with equal force
to the modification of the like power in
the Constitution of this state and for
this reason it will be impossible to
acquit the one and to condemn the other.
A similar comparison would lead to the
same conclusion in respect to the
constitutions of most of the other
states.
If it should be said that defects in the
state constitutions furnish no apology
for those which are to be found in the
plan proposed, I answer that as the
former have never been thought
chargeable with inattention to the
security of liberty, where the
imputations thrown on the latter can be
shown to be applicable to them also, the
presumption is that they are rather the
caviling refinements of a predetermined
opposition than the well-founded
inferences of a candid research after
truth.
To those who are disposed to consider as
innocent omissions in the state
constitutions what they regard as
unpardonable blemishes in the plan of
the convention, nothing can be said, or
at most they can only be asked to assign
some substantial reason why the
representatives of the people in a
single state should be more impregnable
to the lust of power or other sinister
motives than the representatives of the
people of the United States.
If they cannot do this, they ought at
least to prove to us that it is easier
to subvert the liberties of 3 millions
of people with the advantage of local
governments to head their opposition
than of 200,000 people who are destitute
of that advantage.
And in relation to the point immediately
under consideration, they ought to
convince us that it is less probable
that a predominant faction in a single
state should, in order to maintain its
superiority, incline to a preference of
a particular class of electors than that
a similar spirit should take possession
of the representatives of 13 states
spread over a vast region and in several
respects distinguishable from each other
by a diversity of local circumstances,
prejudices, and interests.
Hitherto my observations have only aimed
at a vindication of the provision in
question on the ground of theoretic
propriety, on that of the danger of
placing the power elsewhere, and on that
of the safety of placing it in the
manner proposed.
But there remains to be mentioned a
positive advantage which will result
from the disposition and which could not
as well have been obtained from any
other.
I allude to the circumstance of
uniformity in the time of elections for
the federal House of Representatives.
It is more than possible that this
uniformity may be found by experience to
be of great importance to the public
welfare, both as a security against the
perpetuation of the same spirit in the
body and as a cure for the diseases
affection.
If each state may choose its own time of
election, it is possible there may be at
least as many different periods as there
are months in the year.
The times of election in the several
states, as they are now established for
local purposes, vary between extremes as
wide as March and November. The
consequence of this diversity would be
that there could never happen a total
dissolution or renovation of the body at
one time. If an improper spirit of any
kind should happen to prevail in it,
that spirit would be apt to infuse
itself into the new members as they come
forward in succession.
The mass would be likely to remain
nearly the same, assimilating constantly
to itself its gradual accretions.
There is a contagion in example which
few men have sufficient force of mind to
resist. I'm inclined to think that
treble the duration in office with the
condition of a total dissolution of the
body at the same time might be less
formidable to liberty than 1/3 of that
duration subject to gradual and
successive alterations.
Uniformity in the time of election seems
not less requisite for executing the
idea of a regular rotation in the
Senate, and for conveniently assembling
the legislature at a stated period in
each year.
It may be asked, why then could not a
time have been fixed in the
Constitution?
As the most zealous adversaries of the
plan of the convention in this state are
in general not less zealous admirers of
the Constitution of the state, the
question may be retorted, and it may be
asked, why was not a time for the like
purpose fixed in the Constitution of
this state?
No better answer can be given than that
it was a matter which might safely be
entrusted to legislative discretion, and
that if a time had been appointed, it
might upon experiment have been found
less convenient than some other time.
The same answer may be given to the
question put on the other side, and it
may be added that the supposed danger of
a gradual change being merely
speculative, it would have been hardly
advisable upon that speculation to
establish as a fundamental point what
would deprive several states of the
convenience of having the elections for
their own governments and for the
national government at the same epochs.
Publius.